---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts ― On Boredom"
tags: [raw thoughts, question]
---

It's late at night, and someone called me because they were bored. We had a chit-chat, and when I hung up, I felt puzzled. So, here I am, in my echo chamber, trying to understand what it means when people say they're bored. I'm not sure if I have ever been bored; I don't actually remember feeling that way. There's always something I need to do—I'm constantly thinking about something. I don't call people or text them either. I've got nothing specific to say. I don't mind listening to what others have to say, but I rarely find myself needing to talk about something in particular. What I mean is that I don't engage in those activities out of boredom. I don't mind calling people, but I haven't done it because I was bored.

It's not just about talking; it's about everything. I use social media, listen to music while I'm reading its lyrics, work on projects, write blogs, watch documentaries and funny videos, and listen to podcasts—the list goes on. I keep a diary filled with ideas and try to write everything that comes to mind in that specific context. And when I'm not occupied with these things, I enjoy cooking, tidy up my room and take a walk in my garden, and more. So, I'm consistently surrounded by something, and I've been this way for quite some time.

Some might argue that it won't always be this way, but I say, why not? I won't live forever, so I don't have to worry about it. I don't have any problem with boredom, and I don't object to it in any way, but I have a hard time understanding how people get bored and what it takes to be bored. You can always do something. If I'm sitting for too long and get tired, I'll take a walk, but I'm doing this because my back hurts, not because I'm bored.

So, at what point in the day or night does one become bored? What leads to this phase? Is it a lack of interest in available activities or an inability to find anything engaging? I feel like a five-year-old right now, full of questions and curiosity. To me, it seems there's always something to occupy my mind.

I think I started writing this post because I got bored with what I was doing. God, I'm such a hypocrite. *Good night!*
