---
layout: post
title: "Right Eye on Strike"
tags: [life, health, stupidity]
---

*Writing While Temporarily Blind in One Eye.*
{: .center}

I don't think I've ever been more scared than today. My hands are shivering right now as I'm typing this out. There's something wrong with my right eye, and it's swollen. For the past few days, I've been experiencing major pain on the right side of my face. I have no idea what it is, and I haven't visited an ophthalmologist yet. Honestly, I probably won't. Why? Well, I'm terrified of poor treatment. Given my history of terrible interactions with medicines, I get scared out of my wits every time I think about visiting a doctor. I'm not sure when that will change, but I don't see it happening anytime soon.

Yesterday, my girlfriend said she's going to get me an eye patch and turn me into Nick Fury, so maybe I'll just start wearing it and pretend to be a pirate instead. :bomb: *Arrr, matey! Avast ye! Don't mind me limp and me swollen eye; it's all part of the pirate aesthetic!*

Man, I got distracted again. Anyway, I went to my mother's room, and since she wasn't there, I thought, why not do headstand in the center of the bed and wait till she comes back so I can scare her when she turns on the light? I put a lot of passion into my pranks, so I was on my head for over ten minutes. I can do headstands for a good amount of time. I've been doing them for a long, long time, so it's no biggie. Enough with the flexing. I waited and waited, but she was busy picking mangoes from the garden, so I put my passion aside and stood back on my legs.

On a lighter note, eyes do turn a bit red when you do a headstand for a long time, so it wasn't anything unusual. However, when I flipped myself 180 degrees vertically, I felt a sharp pain in my right eye. I hadn't experienced this before. At first, I thought it was just because I had been on my head for quite a few minutes, but my vision felt a bit distorted. I rubbed my left eye, and boom, the shock arrived. I couldn't see properly from my right eye. I covered my left eye and tried to see with the right one, but the vision was getting worse and worse. I started panicking, so I quickly grabbed my phone and turned on the flash to check if my eyeball looked normal and if there were any noticeable patches or issues, but I couldn't see anything unusual. Worse, when I flashed the light into my right eye, I couldn't see the light at all. I was terrified.

The vision wasn't entirely gone, but it was heavily distorted, and it still is. If I close my left eye and try to read what I've written, I can't do it. The letters and the screen look heavily cracked, and there's not much light I can see. It's very dim, like trying to read a book in a dark room. You just can't see anything properly.

Within a couple of minutes, I've went from blurry vision to almost complete darkness. I keep covering my left eye to check if my vision is clear, but no luck so far. I'll stop writing and tilt my head up. The best thing I can assume right now is that if I tilt my head up, the blood will flow down from my eyeball. Is this how science works? I have no idea. This is all panic writing. I'll be back with an update. It's kinda scary though. Let's *see* what happens. *No pun intended.*

<br>

<p align="center"> {% include date.html custom="8:12 PM" %} </p>

Okay, there is progress. I closed my eyes, tilted my head, and remained in the same position for half an hour. The distortion is gone now and I’m able to see, but the pain hasn’t left. I guess gravity finally decided to do its job. Whatever the heck happened, I hope it doesn’t happen again. Maybe my eye decided to throw a tantrum. It's a trait ingrained in all beautiful things.


*Eye love you!*
