---
layout: post
title: "Use of You"
tags: [raw thoughts]
---

I’m at Cafe Coffee Day in Green Park, and a few minutes ago I was having a conversation with a random girl who was sitting next to me, but at a distance. At some point during the conversation, I said something and she asked, “What do you mean by ‘you’?” I had to explain how and why I use “you.” What I said was elaborate, but who remembers their own magnificent dialogue? Well, a lot of people, but not me. I’m not different; I just stupid.

I'm going to pivot things a little and only cover the reason in the context of writing because my back hurts from sitting too long.

Anyway, so when the conversation was over and we said bye, I thought I should write about my use case of using 'you' whenever I'm writing something, as it happens often and can feel confusing if someone stumbles upon my posts. This habit is something I've developed over time, possibly influenced by reading various writing styles and trying to make my explanations more sensible so that I can have some clarity of thought. I realize that this shift in pronouns can be confusing for someone who isn't familiar with my thought process. You have no reason to be familiar with anything related to me, but I'm writing it anyway.

Whenever I'm writing something, I often find myself drifting from "I" to "you," especially if I'm giving an example. This transition happens subconsciously as I try to illustrate my thoughts more realistically. But when I use "you," I'm rarely referring to anyone else, nor am I generalizing. It feels more like I'm having a conversation in my mind, and I'm possibly referring to myself by putting myself in hypothetical situations so that I can understand if my assumptions match reality. This internal dialogue helps me clarify my thoughts, even if it might seem confusing to others. I'm not sure how much clarity my words contain as of now, but the whole point of writing this post is that when I say "you," I'm not talking about "you." I may not be talking about anyone else, not even me, so the word is a filler to set up an example and add clarity to the conversation.

I might have to elaborate further in order to make some sense, but my words are making sense to me, and I think I'll use that as an excuse to end this post.

*Everything I say makes perfect sense to me, Conan!* --- *Bill Burr*
{: .center}
