---
layout: post
title: "Downgrading Ruby"
tags: [ruby, openssl, downgrade, problem, fix]
---

Due to massive procrastination, I was stuck with Ubuntu 16.04 LTS for a while, but I switched to Mint 21.2 a few days ago. There was a bit of a rush, so I didn't think much about trying another OS before switching, and there's no way I was going to get stuck in the world of snap packages, so I chose Mint over Ubuntu. I was using an older version of Ruby (>2.7) on my system, but since Ruby doesn't fall under my domain of work, and everything was centered around building my website using Jekyll, I never encountered any issues. Until now.

I'm using the [Parchment Theme](https://github.com/rhl-bthr/parchment) for this site, and everything was working perfectly on the old machine. However, when I switched to Mint and started working, I faced a series of issues. I didn't note down anything, and I'm not feeling motivated enough to reproduce the issue, so I'm going to write what I remember and what worked.

---

__*Phase Uno*__ --- *Basics*
{: .center}

---

```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:rhl-bthr/parchment.git
$ cd parchment
$ bundle install
```

*el problema* -- `Bundler could not find compatible versions for gem "bundler":`

To fix --

```
$ gem install bundler -v '~> X.Y.Z'
$ bundle _X.Y.Z_ install
```

I think I faced some issues here which I don't remember clearly; possibly, it couldn't force RubyGems to use the version which `bundle _X.Y.Z_` install specified.

I possibly deleted the `Gemfile.lock` and ran `bundle install`, and that might have worked. I'm not entirely sure because I do not exactly remember, so moving forward.

---

__*Phase Dos*__ --- *Panic Findings*
{: .center}

---

When I did

```
$ bundle exec jekyll serve
```

I got -

```
jekyll 3.9.0 | Error:  no implicit conversion of Hash into Integer
/home/rishi/.local/share/gem/ruby/3.0.0/gems/pathutil-0.16.2/lib/pathutil.rb:502:in `read': no implicit conversion of Hash into Integer (TypeError)
        from /home/rishi/.local/share/gem/ruby/3.0.0/gems/pathutil-0.16.2/lib/pathutil.rb:502:in `read'
```


_Two things_ --

- `jekyll 3.9.0 | Error:  no implicit conversion of Hash into Integer`
- ```/home/rishi/.local/share/gem/ruby/3.0.0/gems/pathutil-0.16.2/lib/pathutil.rb:502:in `read': no implicit conversion of Hash into Integer (TypeError)```

After *googling*, here are a few things I found out:

- GitHub Pages uses `Jekyll 3.9`, which isn’t compatible with Ruby 3. Downgrading to Ruby 2.7 should avoid the problem.
- Avoid using plain global `Jekyll` version 4.
- Use `bundle add webrick`.
- To stay with Ruby 3 or later, you can specify this Ruby 3-compatible update in your `Gemfile`:

```
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem "jekyll"
gem "webrick"
gem "pathutil", github: "sdogruyol/pathutil", ref: '6ab144a7706c2bc5fa0dfdfa498e94ff66e944c6'
```

- Apply the [patch](https://github.com/envygeeks/pathutil/pull/5/commits/3451a10c362fc867b20c7e471a551b31c40a0246/) to `pathutil` because Ruby 3.0 deprecated using the last argument as keyword parameters. A double splat ** has to be added before the variable for the behavior to be supported.

Applying patch locally -

```
sudo sed -i.bak 's/, kwd/, **kwd/' $(gem which pathutil)
```

---

__*Phase Tres*__ --- *Copying Pasting*
{: .center}

---

A few things that I did within a couple of minutes.


- **Attempt 1** — Tried `gem add webrick` as recommended on GitHub's docs.
    - **Status** — It did not work. Nothing changed. I still encountered the error: `Error: no implicit conversion of Hash into Integer`.

- **Attempt 2** — Applied patch to `pathutil` using `sudo sed -i.bak 's/, kwd/, **kwd/' $(gem which pathutil)`
    - **Explanation** — Searched for files associated with the `pathutil` gem, created a backup, and then replaced every occurrence of `, kwd` with `, **kwd`.
    - **Reason** — As mentioned above, Ruby 3.0 deprecated using the last argument as keyword parameters. Adding a double splat `**` before the variable should support this behavior.
    - **Status** — It did not work, and I had no idea why. It was expected to resolve the issue.

---

__*Phase Cuatro*__ --- *Forgetting*
{: .center}

---

1. I forgot about one of the solutions, which was to not use the plain global Jekyll version 4. So, my `Gemfile` had `gem 'jekyll', '4.0.0'` instead of `gem "jekyll", github: "jekyll/jekyll"`.

2. I also forgot to add `gem "pathutil", github: "sdogruyol/pathutil", ref: '6ab144a7706c2bc5fa0dfdfa498e94ff66e944c6'` to my `Gemfile`.

As of now, I can't say whether these approaches would have fixed the problem while I was trying out various things, but the first point is part of the solution, which I implemented last after downgrading Ruby.

---

__*Phase Cinco*__ --- *RVM Clashes*
{: .center}

---

Downgrading Ruby turned out to be a massive pain in the ass because I first chose [rvm](https://github.com/rvm/rvm), which brought tons of issues.

```
$ rvm install 2.7.2
```

Now, I don't remember in what order I faced these issues, but they all arrived.

- __Problem 1__ --- `no command 'rvm' found, but there are 20 similar ones`
    - __Solution__ <br> `curl -L https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable` <br> `source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm` <br> `rvm requirements` <br> `source /etc/profile.d/rvm.sh"`

- __Problem 2__ --- `Error running '__rvm_make -j8'`
    - __Solution__ --- `rvm pkg install openssl` *and*
        - `rvm install ruby-2.7.x --with-openssl-dir=$HOME/.rvm/usr`
- __Problem 3__ --- `mkdir: cannot create directory ‘/usr/share/rvm/log/1648619894_ruby-2.3.5’: Permission denied`
    - __Solution__ --- `rvm fix-permissions system; rvm fix-permissions user`


The [issue](https://github.com/rvm/rvm/issues/5209) was that it couldn't build the old Ruby versions because they relied on OpenSSL 1.1.1, whereas newer versions of Ubuntu come with OpenSSL 3.x. The approach to solve **Problem 2** failed in my case, but many people mentioned that it worked for them.

None of the solutions worked because things were falling apart during compilation. I was tired at this point, so I purged the entire Ruby ecosystem from my machine. I removed `rvm`, `rbenv`, `ruby-build`, `asdf`, `chruby`, and ran `apt purge ruby`. It made me feel better, but after the purge, the urge to fix things was not over.

---

__*Phase Seis*__ --- *Going For A Walk*
{: .center}

---

It was already 4 am, so I decided to go for a walk. On my way back home, I stumbled upon this [blog post](https://deanpcmad.com/2024/installing-older-ruby-versions-on-ubuntu-24-04-and-22-04/). If only I had read the comments on this [Stack Overflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72179373/cant-install-ruby-via-rvm-error-running-rvm-make-j4-on-ubuntu-22-04) earlier, I might have found the solution sooner. But who reads everything when they're tired and just want to fix things as soon as possible? Not me.

I installed [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv), which seems to be the best out of all the Ruby version managers.

The setup was fairly simple -

```
$ git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv

$ ~/.rbenv/bin/rbenv init

$ FPATH=~/.rbenv/completions:"$FPATH"
$ autoload -U compinit
$ compinit
```

Since I didn't want to go through more frustration, especially since people still faced issues downgrading Ruby using rbenv, as mentioned [here](https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build/discussions/1940). Even though one of the maintainers [commented](https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build/discussions/1940#discussioncomment-3724881) that -

> Update: newer versions of ruby-build work around the problem of the user having to manually download and install the required version of OpenSSL. <br> What this means when installing, for example, Ruby 2.7.5 on Ubuntu 22.04 is that ruby-build will automatically download and compile OpenSSL 1.1 and link Ruby to that instead of to the system OpenSSL. <br> Make sure to upgrade your ruby-build!


I decided to follow the steps mentioned in this [blog post](https://deanpcmad.com/2024/installing-older-ruby-versions-on-ubuntu-24-04-and-22-04/). It didn't have any explanation, but I'll provide details on each command for clarity:

- Download and extract the older version of OpenSSL, in this case, version 1.1.1:

```bash
$ wget https://www.openssl.org/source/openssl-1.1.1w.tar.gz
$ tar zxvf openssl-1.1.1w.tar.gz
```

- Set an environment variable called `OPENSSL` that points to the directory where we'll install `OpenSSL`

```
$ export OPENSSL=$HOME/.openssl/openssl-1.1.1w
```

- Now that we have the OpenSSL archive unpacked and the `OPENSSL variable` set, we'll configure the installation using the `./config` command.

```
$ cd openssl-1.1.1w
$ ./config --prefix=$OPENSSL --openssldir=$OPENSSL
```

1. `--prefix=$OPENSSL` --- Specifies the installation directory for OpenSSL.

2. `--openssldir=$OPENSSL` --- Specifies where OpenSSL will store its configuration files and certificates.


- With the configuration complete, we'll build and install OpenSSL -

```
$ make
$ make test
$ make install
```

- Since we're installing an older version of OpenSSL, it's better to remove any existing certificates (*if they exist*) that could conflict with the new installation. So, we'll remove the certificates directory:

```
$ rm -rf $OPENSSL/certs
```

- Now, we'll `symlink` from the `OPENSSL/certs` directory to the system's default certificate directory `/etc/ssl/certs`.

```
$ ln -s /etc/ssl/certs $OPENSSL/certs
```

- With OpenSSL installed, we can now install an older version of ruby using the `rbenv`

```
$ RUBY_CONFIGURE_OPTS=--with-openssl-dir=$OPENSSL rbenv install 2.7.8
```

The `RUBY_CONFIGURE_OPTS` variable specifies the options to pass to the ruby build process, and `--with-openssl-dir=$OPENSSL` tells ruby to use the OpenSSL installation in the directory specified by the `OPENSSL` variable, which we set previously.

Make sure, you've `gem "jekyll", github: "jekyll/jekyll"` in your `Gemfile`. That's it.

<br>
*Cheers* :beer:
{: .center}
