---
layout: post
title: "Self Jinx Ping"
tags: [stupidity]
---

*I swear to god*, I'm not superstitious by nature, but when something happens repeatedly after I do a certain thing, I can't help but correlate that event to my action. I'm not here to whine and rant, but since it has happened again, I'm going to write it down and get over it. It's whining and ranting time.

My concern isn't really serious—or maybe it is, and that's why I'm here? Well, I love [WakaTime](https://wakatime.com/) stats and the charts, so every four or five months, I end up posting my coding stats screenshot on Instagram. It's a nerdy thing to do, I know. *Well, it's not, but there was a time I did find it nerdy.* I used to do the same thing when I was active on Facebook, but that was a long time ago, and not when Neanderthals used to flex their Calvin Klein. I don't know when did that happen, I wasn't there, but clearly, my life hasn't gotten any more exciting since then. Evolution has been one hell of a ride.

Something that became clear was that every time I posted this screenshot, which looked aesthetically pleasing, I fell sick in the next few days, or something odd would happen to me. Like recently, just a day after posting the screenshot on Instagram, I woke up with a swollen eye. Felt like someone had put an egg inside my eye. This isn't the first time odd shit has happened to me after posting the stupid but *aesthetically pleasing* screenshot. I've had similar past experiences where after posting the stupid but *aesthetically pleasing* screenshot, I'd get sick. I don't know what it means, but I'm gonna stop doing it. Feels like I jeopardize my own progress by doing something whose *aesthetics* make me feel good just by looking at it, but I end up jinxing the heck out of myself. What does it even mean? Am I cursed by the Instagram gods? Or maybe I’m just allergic to *aesthetically pleasing* screenshot. Either way, this can't be a coincidence, right? *I swear to god*, I'm not superstitious.

My face feels heavy, so I guess I must drink some water. How are they even related? Well, they are not.

*Heil Hydration*  :japanese_ogre:
