---
layout: post
title: "A Few New Books"
tags: [life, books]
---

Bought a few new books yesterday.

- __Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman -- *Richard P Feynman*__ - I read it in 2021, but don't exactly remember the details (only the gist) apart from finding it thoroughly engaging. As far as I remember, I was hooked to it. Seeing the same book after 3 years made me buy it. I've only read a few pages as of now.

- __Outgrowing God -- *Richard Dawkins*__ - I bought this for my girlfriend. I initially wanted to give her God's Delusion, but it's sort of a tough read and might have pulled her away due to the nature of writing. I'm saying it because it happened to me, and we share a lot of similarity which we both aren't aware of. I believe that now Mr. Dawkins has written Outgrowing God, anyone who is starting out with his work should start with Outgrowing God.

- __Bronte - Everyman's Poetry -- *Emily Jane Brontë*__ - I was only checking the poetry section and there was pile of Everyman's Poetry collection. I picked a few, checked the poems, but I like the content of this one. I'd have taken W.B Yeats' one if it was available.

- __Introducing Linguistics - A Graphic Guide__ - Just bought it because it was cheap and looked nice. It's a graphic thingy and information is distributed in a very convenient way. I've some experience with the area of linguistics and that's due to reading a couple of books like Bastard's Tongue and something by Kipling.

- __Man and His Symbols -- *Carl Jung*__ - I think it's going to be my first introduction with the words of Carl Jung. I've read his 100s of quotes from Goodreads. Opened and closed many of his books several times. Despite starting his books, I never moved forward after reading a couple of pages. It didn't happen out of disinterest, it happened because I kept on forgetting and I also have things to do so that kinda acts as a barrier when it comes to read something that's considered groundbreaking and profound.

I don't plan on buying any books sooner, but might get Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers, Rape of Nanking, W.B Yeats Everyman's collection, Tic Tac Tome. A few cool books by Mr. Feynman.
